what one started in an auction barn is
now a thriving house of worship Jim
Matthews is the pastor of the Cape
County Cowboy Church
you
we're we're Cowboy Church and everybody
that comes here sure in the cowboy you
don't have to be one to come here but
basically what we are worth church that
reaches a group of people that I really
loved and longed for more or less that
cowboy way of life even though if some
of them never owned a horse never want
to but there's some basic things about
that that usually is more of a rural
type lifestyle we kind of target to that
group whenever we started this church
back in 04 and trying to reach that
segment of society and so that's what we
started from and and you we worship the
same Jesus we sing with the great old
hymns they've been around forever a lot
of the new ones that but we try to do to
those in a way that that appeals to
those it's my most of our singing more
about I say they sound like they stepped
out of a bar full of Jesus more about a
country band style
if you interview most of our people
David they were typical listening to
country western radio stations so if we
worship as we sing we try to do it in
such a way as that
it's more that that culture of people
that we are and that we seek above all
above others to reach and do in such a
way that communicates with them we don't
don't use a lot of church language and
etc it's godly language but it's not
necessarily the religious language of
price of lords and hallelujah is all
along and nothing wrong somebody does
that then we love the cross we love the
fish symbols we love pictures of Jesus
not a thing wrong with that but one
thing we try to do is no statement said
in all things spiritual be natural and
all things natural be spiritual so
sometimes we want to take some of the
church eNOS out of our facilities
especially to seek those that are
non-believers so they walk in they don't
just get slapped in the face of a
religion that they're a little forward
to not comfortable at yet and especially
the Christ of our of our faith so what
we've chosen to do is I will take a
wonderful picture that they can relate
to that will draw them to something
they're familiar with and then
underneath it will write something how
were to bear one another's burdens and
so it takes a natural event in their
life and puts a spiritual twist to it
that that's subtle enough but yet drives
a message home from there
of course we started out in a barn and
it really we were all comfortable there
he didn't have to clean up to go if your
boots had mud and other kind of Cal
stuff on it really didn't matter it
served us well for five years but just
simply we outgrew it and because of pure
science sake we had to leave it and
we've put together a building that will
house us now what we like about this
location first of all it gives us room
typically on Sunday morning we'll run
somewhere between 1100 and 1200 people
and where we were before we had we can
see 419 people they're all skinny we had
to have to services and until now we can
all come we can worship in one place
we've got where we would rid of that we
were able to use it a one night and a
few hours on a Sunday morning here we
use a day in and day out a lot of
different activities that we're able to
do whether it be Bible studies or other
events that were able to use it from
that standpoint everybody was so
comfortable field barn I mean they
weren't threatened by it will felt at
home in it and we wanted that same
atmosphere we came here and so with that
we've like in this room this is old
walnut 22 years old that's been sitting
in a barn that we just put rough-cut
walnut up down below as you saw the
worship centers those are hand-hewn logs
that that they took out of old barns
that we tore down and and did that with
a lot of stonework the old chuck wagon
that's there all of that just to give
that feel for the culture that we were
used to you know for us had accused
nothing wrong with them but for us it's
just one more comfortable like it is era
you know carpeted floors nothing wrong
with them but we love concrete like said
we just be at home like this we've got a
lot of young couples a lot of youth got
a lot of senior saints we've just got a
lot of people from every age bracket and
from a lot of different walks of life
and then we've got factor workers and
farmers doctors and lawyers and teachers
and judges and the list goes on and so
it's a pretty good game it but there's
usually a common thread amongst us it's
a love of a sculpture most importantly
it grows into love for Jesus I like the
cowboy church because I really like
music my grandparents started invited me
yo here the greatest thing that we found
is just first of all our God you know
it's kind of interesting the horse and
the connection to the horse or maybe the
uniqueness of the title of our church
cowboy church or that we met in an
option boring many times that was kind
of the hook that drew people in only
found out us they come the first time
for maybe something like that that's a
little unique or something that's a
kinship but what keeps them is the
Spirit of God